China the biggest car market in the
world but the smog and clog are becoming
a monumental headache
so Beijing is pushing the electric car
industry with hefty subsidies and has
big dreams of leading the world to a
high-tech green future one problem
cutting-edge technology
key cars aren't selling but these are
Chung Chen ping a teacher in a farming
village in Shandong Province bought one
over a year ago capped at about 50
kilometres an hour these little machines
aren't counted as regular cars and faced
little in the way of regulation they're
quickly becoming the farmers favourite
and here's why the slow e car costs
about five thousand US dollars similar
to a cheap mini gasoline car but the
gasoline car requires unlicensed and
your insurance and tax and for five
thousand kilometres which is how much
Chun drives a year about five hundred US
dollars in gas eighty US dollars in
electric bills the years all Chung needs
to shell out when Beijing said it aim to
have a million electric vehicles on the
roads by 2020 it didn't have cars like
this in mind across China an estimated
200,000 of these cheap debug e's are
already on the road some simpler than
others as for the high-speed electric
cars less than 2,000 and most of these
are part of China's electric taxi pilot
programs this points to a policy
mismatch says Liu Jian Tong who started
up an electric vehicle technology
company well anyway
technology must match the market the
high-speed evie market hasn't taken off
yet but there is growing demand for slow
cars in Shandong so I'm helping those
factories but these slowy cars are
controversial most used polluting lead
acid batteries which has left them in a
legally gray area with Beijing holding
back any official approval Paul Gow auto
consultant for McKinsey the man could be
really in the multiple millions if
there's no government policy to stop it
shondo province is backing its low speed
in car makers chiffon group is the
provinces biggest but I think pushing
farmers need to get around in the cities
you have subways and buses but on the
farm people are relying on motorcycles
and bicycles they need something between
a car and a bike that they can afford so
while these aren't the futuristic clean
machine Beijing wants on the roads
China's farmers are jump-starting an
electric future in the slow lane